abiotic factor
absolute zero
acid precipitation
acid shock
activation energy
active site
actual yield
adenosine triphosphate
air quality
alkali metal
alluvial fan
alpha particle
amino acid
amorphous solid
anal pore
analogous structures
apparent magnitude
arable land
artesian spring
artificial satellite
asexual reproduction
asteroid belt
astronomical unit
atomic radius
autumnal equinox
avogadro's number
background radiation
bar graph
bathyal zone
benthic zone
beta particle
bilateral symmetry
binomial nomenclature
biological magnification
biotic factor
black hole
blue shift
body plan
boiling point
boyle’s law
brain stem
carbon cycle
cardiac muscle
carrying capacity
celestial object
cellular respiration
centrifugal force
centripetal force
cepheid variable
charles’s law
chemical bonds
chemical symbol
cinder cone
circulatory system
cirrus cloud
clastic rock
climax community
coastal plain
cold front
combustion reaction
competitive exclusion
composite volcano
concentration gradient
connective tissue
constructive boundary
contact metamorphism
continental rise
continental shelf
contour currents
contractile vacuole
control group
coral reef
coriolis effect
covalent bond
crystalline solid
cyclic behaviors
decomposition reaction
deep current
deoxyribonucleic acid
dependent variable
desert pavement
destructive boundary
dew point
dichotomous key
differential weathering
digestive system
digital microscope
dimensional analysis
direct combination
directional selection
diurnal tide
dome mountain
doppler effect
double helix
dynamic equilibrium
ecological footprint
el nino
elastic rebound
electromagnetic spectrum
electron affinity
electron configuration
elliptical galaxy
empirical formula
endangered species
endemic species
endoplasmic reticulum
energy conversion
energy efficiency
energy pyramid
epipelagic zone
excited state
excretory system
exotic species
expected yield
exponential growth
external fertilization
extrusive rock
fault-block mountain
fertility rate
first quarter
foliated rock
food web
foot wall
fossil record
fringing reef
frost action
full moon
galactic cluster
gall bladder
gamma ray
gastrovascular cavity
gene flow
genetic diversity
genetic engineering
geochemical cycle
geologic column
geothermal energy
glacial drift
global warming
globular cluster
golgi apparatus
ground state
hanging wall
hard water
haversian canal
hazardous waste
hertzsprung-russell diagram
high tide
hot spot
hydrogen bond
hydrologic cycle
hydrostatic skeleton
ideal gas
igneous rock
immune system
impermeable membrane
inclined plane
independent variable
index fossil
indirect rays
infrared radiation
innate behavior
inner core
internal fertilization
intertidal zone
intrusive rock
ionization energy
jet stream
kettle lake
keystone species
kinetic energy
krebs cycle
kuiper belt
kyoto protocol
l wave
la nina
land degradation
large intestine
lava plateau
life expectancy
life span
limiting factor
littoral zone
local wind
logistic model
longitudinal wave
low tide
lunar phases
magma chamber
magnetic pole
main sequence
mammary gland
mangrove swamp
marine climate
mass wasting
mature river
mechanical advantage
melting point
mercator projection
metallic bond
metamorphic rock
metric system
milky way
mohs scale
molar volume
monatomic ion
moon phase
motor neuron
muck fire
muscle strain
muscle tear
muscular system
neap tide
neritic zone
net force
neutron star
new moon
nitrogen fixation
noble gas
nonrenewable resource
nonvascular plant
nuclear fusion
nucleic acid
nutrient cycle
occluded front
oceanic crust
octet rule
oort cloud
open cluster
open-water zone
oral groove
organ system
oscillating model
outer core
outwash plain
oxbow lake
oxidation number
ozone depletion
ozone layer
p wave
parent rock
partial pressure
pelagic environment
percent yield
periodic trend
permeable membrane
petri dish
phosphorus cycle
photoelectric effect
photovoltaic cell
pioneer species
planetary ring
plate boundaries
plate tectonics
point source
polar easterlies
polar molecule
polyatomic ion
population density
prairie soil
prevailing winds
prime meridian
prograde rotation
projectile motion
punnett square
pure substance
radiant energy
radio waves
radiometric dating
rain shadow
receptor protein
recharge zone
reflecting telescope
refracting telescope
regional metamorphism
relative humidity
remote sensing
renewable resource
residual soil
respiratory system
resting potential
restriction enzyme
retrograde motion
reusable resources
reverse fault
ribonucleic acid
richter scale
robinson projection
rock fall
rolling friction
s wave
salt marsh
scientific inquiry
scientific literacy
scientific method
scientific name
sea cliff
sea stack
seafloor spreading
sedimentary rock
segmented worm
seismic wave
semipermeable membrane
semidiurnal tide
sensory neuron
sex chromosome
shield volcano
significant digit
simple machine
skeletal muscle
small intestine
smooth muscle
social behaviors
soft water
soil horizon
soil profile
soil texture
solar flare
solar nebula
space probe
space shuttle
specific gravity
spinal cord
spiral galaxy
spontaneous generation
stabilizing selection
stable rock
static electricity
stationary front
storm surge
stratified drift
structural formula
subatomic particle
sulfuric acid
summer solstice
supergiant star
surface runoff
talus slope
target cell
tectonic plate
temperate grassland
temperature inversion
terminal moraine
terrestrial planet
thermal conduction
thermal expansion
third quarter
threatened species
thrust fault
tidal range
time zone
total eclipse
trace fossil
trade winds
transform boundary
transgenic animal
transition metal
transported soil
transverse wave
trophic level
turbidity current
ultraviolet radiation
unbalanced forces
unfoliated rock
universal solvent
urinary bladder
valence electron
vegetative reproduction
vernal equinox
visible light
vocal cord
volcanic ash
volcanic bomb
volcanic dust
warm front
weather balloon
white dwarf
wind power
winter solstice
absolute dating
absolute magnitude
abyssal plain
abyssal zone
acid rain
active coast
active transport
age structure
air mass
air pollution
air pressure
air resistance
artificial selection
atomic mass
atomic number
balanced equation
balanced forces
barrier island
barrier reef
binary fission
binary star
biological succession
body cavity
cell membrane
cell wall
chain reaction
chemical bond
chemical change
chemical energy
chemical equation
chemical formula
chemical property
chemical reaction
chemical rock
chemical weathering
compound machine
continental crust
continental drift
continental glacier
continental slope
convergent boundary
convergent evolution
desert soil
direct transmission
divergent boundary
divergent evolution
drainage basin
drainage system
dwarf planet
ecological succession
effort arm
effort force
electrical current
electrical field
electrical potential
electromagnetic radiation
electromagnetic wave
electron cloud
electron microscope
endocrine gland
endocrine system
energy conservation
energy level
food chain
fossil fuel
freezing point
freezing rain
fuel cell
gas giant
genetic drift
genetic material
giant star
global wind
gravitational force
gravitational potential
greenhouse effect
greenhouse gas
growth rate
heat capacity
heat island
homologous chromosome
homologous structures
ice age
ice core
indirect transmission
land breezes
lateral fault
lateral moraine
life cycle
life zone
light microscope
longshore current
longshore drift
lunar cycle
lunar eclipse
magnetic energy
magnetic field
mass number
material resource
mechanical energy
mechanical wave
mechanical weathering
membrane potential
molar mass
molecular compound
molecular formula
muscle tissue
natural gas
natural resource
natural selection
nervous system
nervous tissue
nitrogen cycle
normal fault
normal force
nuclear energy
nuclear fission
nuclear membrane
nuclear reaction
ocean basin
ocean crust
ocean current
organic compound
organic rock
ozone hole
passive coast
passive transport
periodic law
periodic table
physical change
physical property
physical weathering
planetary system
polar zone
pore space
potential energy
primary consumer
primary pollutant
primary succession
primary wave
protein synthesis
red giant
red shift
relative dating
reproductive behavior
reproductive potential
reproductive system
resistance arm
resistance force
rift valley
rift zone
river system
rock cycle
sea breezes
secondary consumer
secondary pollutant
secondary succession
secondary wave
sexual reproduction
sexual selection
soil conservation
soil structure
solar cell
solar eclipse
solar energy
solar mass
solar system
solar wind
space station
specific heat
spring tide
star cycle
station model
surface current
surface map
surface water
surface wave
surface zone
synthesis reaction
temperate zone
thermal energy
thermal pollution
tidal forces
tidal energy
tropical soil
tropical storm
tropical zone
valley glacier
vascular plant
vascular system
waste water
water cycle
water pollution
water table
weather map